Okok Arcane is not going to have a good ending. This isn’t Teletubbies. The world presented in Arcane is realistic with high stakes and open endings. I’m pretty sure episode 3 showed us that this wasnt our ordinary animated show. Sure, forgiveness is a main theme of the show and that directly means that some portion of the ending will be happy. But heres the thing, season 2 is also about war and the point of no return. We learned from Vander that there are no winners in war. A sentiment I’ve been seeing a lot is that Zaun and Piltover unite against Noxus and Zaun wins independence for itself and Piltover earns its forgiveness. True, the trailers are directly misleading that fact to us but if I were to ask you the overall conflict in Arcane what would you say? Every story needs a conflict and here from the opening shots is between Piltover and Zaun. But I do admit that doesn’t necessary mean that they fight until the end. But if the two were to team up and defeat an outside enemy and both cities kinda get what they want thats way too happy of an ending in my eyes. This case would mean that there are winners of war and would detract from the entire tone Arcane has set up this entire time. People will die, disasters will happen, and we will cry. The writers worked very hard to engrain that to us. If the biggest plotpoint in the show turns buddy buddy and everyone unites against an outside evil I think its puzzling that season 2, a season directly about war, has lower stakes than in season 1. Sure, people might struggle in the middle but if barely anyone dies and no losses are suffered whats the point of war? A main reason why I said piltover will get destroyed is because it would add genuine tension and tangible effects from war. This season is going to be darker and more intense than whats been presented to us in season 1. I think we all want it to. Season one ended with many bombshells. Powder killing her whole family, Vi destroying the entire tower, Jinx decimating an enforcer squad on the bridge, Jayce and Vi tearing through a shimmer factory, and Jinx shooting a nuke at the council. The point of a climax is to be the most exciting impactful part of a narrative, and season  2, the pinnacle of everything that has been built up, will no doubt make all of these tragedies seem like a minor inconvenience. There is a base violence necessary for change, as every meaningful change in the series has been a direct result of someone shaking up the status quo. The first war in piltover changed vander to preserve peace. Powder blowing up a building resulted in Silco’s takeover to a industrial Zaun. Vi’s violence morphed her sister into Jinx. Jayce’s shimmer raid brought grounds for peace. And Jinx’s rocket attack threw both cities into war. All of these changes could be rationed as temporary but in the grand scheme of things, nothing is permanent. The biggest long-term change we found within the show was at the very beginning, With Vander’s change in mindset to preserve peace for a decade. And you know what preceeded this ideological shift? The most amount of violence shown to us in the show, a civil war that resulted in Vi and Powder’s parents getting killed. Now if peace were to be achieved, if zaun won independece, if the two cities buried their strained two hundred year relationship to build a better future together, a certain level of violence should be met to wake up characters to switch to a better path moving forward. Uniting against noxus is quite literally removing any tension from the story and any mutually shared violence to kick out noxus for the biggest change we’ve seen in this series, the resolution between piltover and zaun. You see why that sounds impactful? Or maybe I’m wrong and continued infighting would not tell a more complete story, that could be true as well. But Arcane’s ending is going to be sad. Ella purnell, the voice actor behind Jinx said that after recording the last episode she cried. Arcane tends to make us cry. If everyone unites in the last episode for a power trip and good feelings shared around that wouldn’t make people cry. Or maybe she cried out of happiness because it felt so good watching Vi and Jinx reunite. If any writer can do it its amanda overton. Overall I just want to reiterate that a lot of theories I’ve seen about the resolution of Arccane fails to take into account the genuine, grim realities of war alongside the necessary buildup that leads to earned payoff.